1) Describe your software design in detail
The software will provide the same features as the previous implementation: FHIR resources,
profile, and extension browsing, and FHIR profile and extension creation. Therefore, the
software model will also follow a similar structure. We will implement D3.js to create
graphical representation of the data, HAPI FHIR to ensure that user-customised profiles and
extensions satisfy the FHIR specification, and JQuery to support interactive functions.


The software implements Visual FHIR, a graphical tool to convey the content of FHIR. Visual
FHIR allows browsing, profiling, and extension definition to be visualised. The outline of system
architecture are as follows: FHIR specification, user interaction, and clinical contexts of use. The
software allows users to perform visualised browsing, profiling, and extension defining.

2) Explain your sourcecode


3) Describe your software prototype evaluation
To visualise the FHIR models, the software considers the following main model components:
FHIR resources, profiles, and extensions. FHIR resources represent categories in which health
care data is broken down into, such as person, medication, and insurance plan. FHIR resources
define data elements, constraints, and relationships that when combined, make up an
exchangeable patient record. The core FHIR resources satisfy most common use cases.

For browsing FHIR resources, the software first parsed the schemas of the FHIR resources.
Resources follow the standards JSON, XML, and RDF. The schema in JSON contains two key
elements, "$ref" and "properties". The method used allows for schema to be parsed automatically
to obtain the Uniform Resource Identifiers (URIs) by following "$ref". The elements of each
schema file can then be found by parsing "properties". Next, functions d3.layout.tree and
d3.svg.diagonal are used to construct the tree graphs for the schemas. JQuery is used to support
interactive functions – allowing for dynamic interactions with the graph.

4) Write summary of your project, which consist of Introduction, Methods, Results, Discussion, and References
Introduction:
The FHIR specification is relatively difficult to understand and utilise due to complex semantic 
representation and structure definition. "An Interactive Visualization Tool for HL7 FHIR 
Specification Browsing and Profiling" was developed as a result. However, the current implementation 
of the product has some limitations; more advancedfeatures, such as profiling and authoring are yet 
to be implemented completely. In this project, we will attempt to implement more advanced profiling 
and authoring features (such as concept mapping and profile registering) and improve on the 
user-friendliness by providing more information to help guide users to better understand FHIR models.

Methods:
Although we plan to implement more features, our priority is to improve on the user
orientation aspects, as we believe a software friendly to users is of utmost importance, given
how complex the FHIR specification already is. We also feel that the basic profiling and
authoring features in the current implementation are already sufficient for most applications.

Results:
Users can input a FHIR file. If they choose to browse a FHIR resource, the system parses the
schema and displays a tree graph representation of the FHIR Profile. If the user chooses to
browse a FHIR profile or extension, the system parses through Structure Definition and displays
tree and relational graphs of the profile or extensions.

Discussion:
Because of complex semantic representation and structure definition, the FHIR specification is
relatively difficult to understand and utilise. HL7 guides users by providing HTML-based
browsing methods for FHIR models. However, it is essential for tooling support in model
browsing and interactive authoring to be developed to help users to better understand and utilise
the FHIR specification. This study aims to design, implement, and evaluate an interactive
visualisation tool for the FHIR specification in an integrated platform.

References:
1. N. Hong, K. Wang, S. Wu, F. Shen, L. Yao, G. Jiang, "An Interactive Visualization Tool for HL7 FHIR
Specification Browsing and Profiling," J Healthc Inform Res., vol. 3, no. 3, pp. 329-344, Sep.2019.
Accessed Nov. 08, 2022. doi: 10.1007/s41666-018-0043-8. [Online]. Available:
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6784845.

2. "Introduction to FHIR Resources," healthit.gov.
https://www.healthit.gov/sites/default/files/page/2021-04/Intro%20to%20FHIR%20Resources%20Fact%20
Sheet.pdf (accessed Nov. 08, 2022).

3. M. Ruten, "FHIR Profiles and Implementation Guides," fire.ly.
https://fire.ly/blog/fhir-profiles-and-implementation-guides (accessed Nov. 08, 2022).

4. E. Yesakov, "What are FHIR Profiles," kodijin.com. https://kodjin.com/blog/what-are-fhir-profiles
(accessed Nov. 08, 2022).

5. "HL7 FHIR Extensions," lyniate.com. https://lyniate.com/resources/hl7-fhir-extensions (accessed Nov. 08,
2022).


